Hello, I am Dr. Bhooshan Shukla.
Today is 21st March 2020.
Many of you have many different questions about Coronavirus.
I am a Child Psychiatrist and I work in Pune.
I have been receiving many calls from parents since the last two weeks,
regarding how should we talk to our kids?
what should we do?
what should we tell them?
There is an environment of care and caution everywhere.
Since kids are to stay at home, this has become a concern for all parents.
This is why I have created this short video for you.
If you find these tips useful, I will be very happy.
The first thing to note is that ‘being worried’ or ‘being scared’ could be an aspect of the child’s temperament
But more importantly, children base their reactions by seeing the reactions of adults around them.
So in your home, if you have an environment where
mom-dad, grandmom-grandpa are constantly reading WhatsApp forwards from various sources,
are loudly discussing about it,
and there is an environment of fear in the house,
then this obviously troubles the children.
The concern that you express about a contagious disease,
ends up being contagious too.
Such an irony.
Hence, only spend a little time looking at these things
And honestly speaking,
regularly washing hands,
Not going close to people,
And staying away from old people to avoid infecting them,
are three simple rules [that we must follow].
Are these worth spending 5 hours on WhatsApp?
If you have understood these three simple rules,
And you are willing to abide by them,
And if your heartbeats start rising by reading messages on social media
Then please, first limit your access to social media.
Because apart from these simple rules, there is not much you can do right now.
Wait a little. Take care of these few basic rules.
Let there be less worry on your face.
Sit with your children.
Now when kids ask you questions, what should you tell them?
Because kids [might] think something terrible is going to happen,
Are people going to die? What is going to happen?
The truthful answer to this right now is
Right now, we are taking precautions because this disease could be dangerous.
So we are taking these precautions
To try that this disease doesn’t reach us at all.
Right now, we should all keep our focus on these attempts.
Let’s keep our full focus on this
and let’s not unnecessarily discuss all the [other worrying topics].
This is a very important thing.
The third thing. Since kids are at home all day. You are at home. What are you going to do?
Please take note.
The best solution to both: boredom and anxiety,
The absolute best medicine for both is To Act With Your Hands.
So become active.
Don’t sit idly in the same place and keep looking at the screen all the time.
Read something good, discuss about it.
There are many chores to do, cleaning to do,
Many items [to declutter], many documents to take care of, need to arrange things,
Need to clean cupboards, need to declutter useless things,
Are you going to get a bigger opportunity than this?
Use this opportunity.
There are toys at home. Lego blocks. Puzzles. Start working on those.
Let’s do minor repairs at home. Let’s fix light sockets. Let’s fix small [appliances].
Let’s fix leaky taps at home.
Let’s teach kids to use screws, wrench, hammer, nail, etc.
Let’s clean vegetables. Let’s make curry. Let’s cook. Let’s help [with home chores].
Let’s do cleaning. For many, the domestic help [might be unavailable].
Let’s learn to do those things ourselves.
Let’s teach the kids to iron.
There are a ton of tasks to do. In fact, 15 days might be less to finish all these tasks.
The biggest remedy for anxiety..
..is Positive Action.
Who are your neighbours?
Do they have sufficient resources at home?
Are there any needy elderly nearby?
Your building’s watchmen.. your domestic help.. Do they have the means to survive?
Do they need any help?
Do this.
Teach your kids to wash the vehicle with one bucket of water.
These are simple activities that you and your kids can do together. Definitely do these.
Now there are few things that you shouldn’t do.
Our homes are small. They aren’t mansions.
We [all] live in 1, 2, or max-3 bedroom apartments.
Sitting together in a small [constrained] space causes irritability.
So do not discuss troublesome topics, old topics, unpleasant experiences.
Definitely discuss the good and pleasant topics.
And parents, "This is a good chance."
"Kids are now stuck. And now [we should preach]."
Please don’t do this.
Kids are not at all interested in listening to your life’s philosophy.
So let’s teach kids to work with their hands. Let’s teach them useful things.
And during this quarantine,
during this self-imposed Janata-Curfew for a day
Staying at home. Working from home.
Let’s spend this time wisely. Let’s be positive.
Let’s regularly wash our hands.
Let’s [come together] only at [our] homes.
Let’s not go outside. Let’s not come in contact with anyone.
Let’s take care of the elders. Let’s take care of the young.
Live in happiness. Stay happy. Stay safe.
Do take precaution. But don’t take tension.
Don’t get paralyzed with anxiety. Don’t die with anxiety.
Stay safe. Stay positive. Live in Happiness.
Jai Hind!